README.md, before:

YouTrack Client PHP Library
===========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nepda/youtrack-client.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nepda/youtrack-client)
[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/nepda/youtrack-client.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/nepda/youtrack-client)

The bugtracker [YouTrack](http://www.jetbrains.com/youtrack/) provides a
[REST-API](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/youtrack/standalone/2017.2/YouTrack-REST-API-Reference.html).
Because a lot of web applications are written in [PHP](http://php.net) I decided to write a client library for it.
To make it easier for developers to write connectors to YouTrack.

The initial development was sponsored by [Telematika GmbH](http://www.telematika.de).
The current development is made by nepda.

The source of this library is released under the BSD license (see LICENSE for details).

## Requirements

* PHP >= 5.4 (Tested with >= 5.6, Travis runs tests with ~~5.4, 5.5~~, 5.6, 7.0 and 7.1)
* curl
* simplexml
* json
* YouTrack 3.0+ with REST-API enabled (currently, the production system runs with YouTrack 2017.2)

## Changelog

Please look into CHANGELOG for a list of the past releases.

## Usage

    <?php
    require_once("YouTrack/Connection.php");
    $youtrack = new \YouTrack\Connection("http://example.com", "login", "password");
    $issue = $youtrack->getIssue("TEST-1");
    ...

See `./examples` folder for more usage examples.

## Usage with ZF2 ZendSkeletonApplication

In your /init_autoloader.php

    <?php
    // ... snip
    if ($zf2Path) {
        if (isset($loader)) {
            $loader->add('Zend', $zf2Path);
        } else {
            include $zf2Path . '/Zend/Loader/AutoloaderFactory.php';
            Zend\Loader\AutoloaderFactory::factory(array(
                'Zend\Loader\StandardAutoloader' => array(
                    'autoregister_zf' => true,
                    'namespaces' => [                            // add this
                        'YouTrack' => 'vendor/YouTrack'          // ...
                    ],                                           // ...
                )
            ));
        }
    }
    // ... snip

From now on you can use YouTrack-Client-PHP-Library from any file in you ZF2-App.

    <?php
    // ...
    // example
    use YouTrack\Connection as YouTrackConnection;

    class ExampleController extends AbstractActionController
    {

        public function anyAction()
        {
            $youtrack = new YouTrackConnection("http://example.com", "login", "password");
            $issue = $youtrack->getIssue("TEST-1");
            // ...
        }
    }

## Standalone setup with composer

Run the following commands to install composer and youtrack-client.

    mkdir my-youtrack-project
    cd my-youtrack-project

    php -r "copy('https://getcomposer.org/installer', 'composer-setup.php');"
    php -r "if (hash_file('SHA384', 'composer-setup.php') === '55d6ead61b29c7bdee5cccfb50076874187bd9f21f65d8991d46ec5cc90518f447387fb9f76ebae1fbbacf329e583e30') { echo 'Installer verified'; } else { echo 'Installer corrupt'; unlink('composer-setup.php'); } echo PHP_EOL;"
    php composer-setup.php
    php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"
    
    php composer.phar require nepda/youtrack-client
(Please checkout the [latest composer setup on their page](https://getcomposer.org/download/))

Create a `./my-youtrack-project/client.php` file with content:

    <?php
    define('YOUTRACK_URL', 'https://*your-url*.myjetbrains.com/youtrack');
    define('YOUTRACK_USERNAME', '***');
    define('YOUTRACK_PASSWORD', '***');
    require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';
    try {
        $youtrack = new YouTrack\Connection(
            YOUTRACK_URL,
            YOUTRACK_USERNAME . 'invalid',
            YOUTRACK_PASSWORD
        );
        echo 'Login correct.' . PHP_EOL;
        
        $issue = $youtrack->getIssue('TEST-123');
        // Now you can work with the issue or other $youtrack methods
    } catch (\YouTrack\IncorrectLoginException $e) {
        echo 'Incorrect login or password.' . PHP_EOL;
    }

With this simple setup you're ready to go.

## Tests

The testsuite depends on PHPUnit. You can install it with `composer.phar`:

    curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php --
    php composer.phar install


The unit tests are incomplete but you can run them using `phpunit` like this:

    ./vendor/bin/phpunit ./test


## Contributors

* [@jan0sch](https://github.com/jan0sch)
* [@jkswoods](https://github.com/jkswoods)
* [@Shyru](https://github.com/Shyru)
* [@nepda](https://github.com/nepda)
* [@richardhinkamp](https://github.com/richardhinkamp)
* [@Limelyte](https://github.com/Limelyte)
* [@1ed](https://github.com/1ed)
* [@openWebX](https://github.com/openWebX)
* [@wdamien](https://github.com/wdamien)
* [@angerslave](https://github.com/Angerslave)

(and more: https://github.com/nepda/youtrack-client/network/members)

Commit message:

Fixed #31 - Added permanent token auth

README.md, after:

YouTrack Client PHP Library
===========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nepda/youtrack-client.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nepda/youtrack-client)
[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/nepda/youtrack-client.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/nepda/youtrack-client)

The bugtracker [YouTrack](http://www.jetbrains.com/youtrack/) provides a
[REST-API](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/youtrack/standalone/2017.2/YouTrack-REST-API-Reference.html).
Because a lot of web applications are written in [PHP](http://php.net) I decided to write a client library for it.
To make it easier for developers to write connectors to YouTrack.

The initial development was sponsored by [Telematika GmbH](http://www.telematika.de).
The current development is made by nepda.

The source of this library is released under the BSD license (see LICENSE for details).

## Requirements

* PHP >= 5.4 (Tested with >= 5.6, Travis runs tests with ~~5.4, 5.5~~, 5.6, 7.0 and 7.1)
* curl
* simplexml
* json
* YouTrack 3.0+ with REST-API enabled (currently, the production system runs with YouTrack 2017.2)

## Changelog

Please look into CHANGELOG for a list of the past releases.

## Usage

### With permanent token

Please look into
[the YouTrack documentation](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/youtrack/standalone/2017.2/Log-in-to-YouTrack.html) on how
to create such a permanent token.

    <?php
    require_once("YouTrack/Connection.php");
    $youtrack = new \YouTrack\Connection("http://example.com", "perm:*****", null);
    $issue = $youtrack->getIssue("TEST-1");
    ...

The `$password` parameter has to be `null` for permanent token login. This feature is dirty and will be fixed in version
2.*.

### With deprecated username/password login

    <?php
    require_once("YouTrack/Connection.php");
    $youtrack = new \YouTrack\Connection("http://example.com", "login", "password");
    $issue = $youtrack->getIssue("TEST-1");
    ...

See `./examples` folder for more usage examples.

## Usage with ZF2 ZendSkeletonApplication

In your /init_autoloader.php

    <?php
    // ... snip
    if ($zf2Path) {
        if (isset($loader)) {
            $loader->add('Zend', $zf2Path);
        } else {
            include $zf2Path . '/Zend/Loader/AutoloaderFactory.php';
            Zend\Loader\AutoloaderFactory::factory(array(
                'Zend\Loader\StandardAutoloader' => array(
                    'autoregister_zf' => true,
                    'namespaces' => [                            // add this
                        'YouTrack' => 'vendor/YouTrack'          // ...
                    ],                                           // ...
                )
            ));
        }
    }
    // ... snip

From now on you can use YouTrack-Client-PHP-Library from any file in you ZF2-App.

    <?php
    // ...
    // example
    use YouTrack\Connection as YouTrackConnection;

    class ExampleController extends AbstractActionController
    {

        public function anyAction()
        {
            $youtrack = new YouTrackConnection("http://example.com", "login", "password");
            $issue = $youtrack->getIssue("TEST-1");
            // ...
        }
    }

## Standalone setup with composer

Run the following commands to install composer and youtrack-client.

    mkdir my-youtrack-project
    cd my-youtrack-project

    php -r "copy('https://getcomposer.org/installer', 'composer-setup.php');"
    php -r "if (hash_file('SHA384', 'composer-setup.php') === '55d6ead61b29c7bdee5cccfb50076874187bd9f21f65d8991d46ec5cc90518f447387fb9f76ebae1fbbacf329e583e30') { echo 'Installer verified'; } else { echo 'Installer corrupt'; unlink('composer-setup.php'); } echo PHP_EOL;"
    php composer-setup.php
    php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"
    
    php composer.phar require nepda/youtrack-client
(Please checkout the [latest composer setup on their page](https://getcomposer.org/download/))

Create a `./my-youtrack-project/client.php` file with content:

    <?php
    define('YOUTRACK_URL', 'https://*your-url*.myjetbrains.com/youtrack');
    define('YOUTRACK_USERNAME', '***');
    define('YOUTRACK_PASSWORD', '***');
    require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';
    try {
        $youtrack = new YouTrack\Connection(
            YOUTRACK_URL,
            YOUTRACK_USERNAME . 'invalid',
            YOUTRACK_PASSWORD
        );
        echo 'Login correct.' . PHP_EOL;
        
        $issue = $youtrack->getIssue('TEST-123');
        // Now you can work with the issue or other $youtrack methods
    } catch (\YouTrack\IncorrectLoginException $e) {
        echo 'Incorrect login or password.' . PHP_EOL;
    }

With this simple setup you're ready to go.

## Tests

The testsuite depends on PHPUnit. You can install it with `composer.phar`:

    curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php --
    php composer.phar install


The unit tests are incomplete but you can run them using `phpunit` like this:

    ./vendor/bin/phpunit ./test


## Contributors

* [@jan0sch](https://github.com/jan0sch)
* [@jkswoods](https://github.com/jkswoods)
* [@Shyru](https://github.com/Shyru)
* [@nepda](https://github.com/nepda)
* [@richardhinkamp](https://github.com/richardhinkamp)
* [@Limelyte](https://github.com/Limelyte)
* [@1ed](https://github.com/1ed)
* [@openWebX](https://github.com/openWebX)
* [@wdamien](https://github.com/wdamien)
* [@angerslave](https://github.com/Angerslave)

(and more: https://github.com/nepda/youtrack-client/network/members)
